Good afternoon, everybody.
Thanks for coming to check out
the Polishing Your Interface
Rotation Animations talk,
even if you didn't necessarily
know what it was that meant
when you read the title.
So we're going to talk a little bit
today about interface rotations,
and by that I mean the thing that happens
when you take your device and turn it
from portrait to landscape or vice versa,
and you get a nice smooth rotation
transition as it rotates and
animates from one to the other.
So we're going to start by talking about,
well, what exactly that means, and,
you know, gave you a little idea there,
but we've got a little
more depth to go into,
and why you want to do this.
And really the reason here is
because this is one of those things,
one of those little pieces of polish that
just makes your app that much better.
A key component of iOS landscape and
portrait operation is the fact that the
transition between the two is super,
super smooth,
and like a really nice smooth
transition rotation keeps your users
in the context of the rotation.
So we're going to start by talking
about what exactly that means,
and, you know,
gave you a little idea there,
but we've got a little
more depth to go into,
and why you want to do this.
And really the reason here is
because this is one of those things,
one of those little pieces of polish that
just makes your app that much better.
your users in the context of
what they're seeing and make
sure that there's no jarring,
you know,
fades or jumps when the device goes
from one orientation to the other.
So it's really important that
this be smooth and that the users
have a good experience here.
After we're done talking about that,
then we're going to talk a little
bit about the iOS view hierarchy,
the way that animations work and how
they get rendered onto the screen,
so that we can talk a little bit
about how that impacts the way
that you're going to design and
update your rotation animations.
And then after we've
talked about those things,
we're going to get into some more
advanced topics about some performance
issues that you may run into and
ways that you can resolve them.
If you just go ahead and start out
by doing the really simple thing and
basically doing nothing and hoping
that your rotations will look smooth,
sometimes you may find that's
not the case without some work.
So we'll look at what you might
change in order to make them smoother.
And then if you find that
even just optimizing your
performance isn't sufficient to
get a really great experience,
we'll talk about some
visual sleight of hand,
various different ways that you
can trick your users into thinking
that they're seeing you doing
something awesome on the screen
that you're really not doing at all.
So, yeah, basically trick your users.
It's a good plan.
All right.
So first, what is interface rotation?
Well, let's take, for example,
a really common thing that you'll
obviously see in most apps on iOS,
but starting with this one,
the Notes app.
So when your user rotates their
device from portrait to landscape,
they're going to see a nice transition,
an animation that's going
to happen when this happens.
There it is.
And then, of course,
when they rotate back from
landscape back to portrait,
you're going to get
another nice animation.
That smoothly brings you back.
Now, that all happens pretty fast.
So you may be thinking, well, it was,
you know,
three-tenths of a second or something.
Whatever.
But it really is important.
You know,
it keeps your users with the context
of what they were working on.
It makes sure that they know exactly what
from one orientation is still relevant in
the next orientation so that they don't
lose track of what they were working on.
It's just that nice, you know,
part of what makes using
an iOS device so nice.
So I want to slow this rotation
animation down a little bit so
that you can see some of the things
that I'm going to be talking about.
So let's see some of the
things that are happening here.
Because at first it may just look like
we're actually redrawing all those
intermediate frames and doing exactly
the kind of thing that you would expect
if you really drew every frame at the way
that it should look during this rotation.
But when I run it really slow,
you're going to see that in some
cases that's not actually true.
So let's take another look with it
running just a little bit slower.
So partway through the rotation,
if you watch the keyboard,
you're going to see that there's
actually some ghosting of the keys
where one key seems to be sort
of overlapping part of itself.
And the reason that this looks
like this is because the keyboard
actually only knows how to draw
itself in two different ways,
landscape and portrait.
And that's it.
For all the intermediate
frames of this rotation,
we're actually overlaying and
stretching the two images,
the snapshots of the
landscape and portrait views,
and then stretching them out at the
same time and cross baiting them.
The effect about halfway through is
that you do see some of that ghosting,
but it happens so fast
that to the user at speed,
it really just looks like
it's a really smooth rotation.
It's a flowing transition.
And I just sometimes stand
here and watch this for like
an hour and then fall asleep.
But I think it's kind of fun.
Now, there is a little bit more obvious
effect going on in the title bar there,
in the navigation bar.
You do sort of notice a little
bit more of the ghosting in the
title of the navigation bar.
But even at speed, users generally don't
really even notice that.
In fact,
I would probably bet that most of you
just watching this now had never even
imagined some of the stuff going on here.
I really never even noticed.
[Transcript missing]
So let's take a look at how that
impacts values that would be set -- or,
sorry,
how setting values on your layers and
your views impacts these various trees.
So let's look first at what happens
when you just call set frame on
a view with no animation block.
So let's assume that we've got some
views that start out with just a size.
Let's say it started out with 25,
25 is the size of our view.
And we call set frame on that view and
try to change its frame size to 50 by 50.
Now, immediately when you call set frame,
the model value will be updated.
So if we query back the value from
our view by calling view frame,
we will find that it thinks
its size is 50 by 50.
The render tree and
the presentation tree,
though, have not been updated yet.
Now, let's assume that we've done this
in response to some user action,
like a button press or a tap.
Once you finish processing that event,
UI kit and core animation will commit
that change to the render server,
and then it will actually
be able to be displayed.
So everything you change as a result
of one user action will be displayed.
So at the end of that event,
once it's processed,
then the two other trees will be
updated to reflect the current state,
because that will then
be displayed to the user.
So that's sort of the progression when
you're dealing with a non-animated case.
So let's look at what happens
in the case of animation.
With the exact same thing,
we're going to assume that our view
starts with a size of 25 by 25,
and we're going to call set frame to
change it to have a size of 50/50,
but this time within an animation block.
For example,
calling UIView animate with duration.
And we'll assume that we're going
to do a two-second animation,
just so that we have something
that we can talk through.
So let's call animate with duration
and then call set frame in there.
Again,
the model will update immediately because
we're setting the value on our UI view.
And when I'm talking about model here,
I mean, I know that's a little
confusing because we have MVC,
the model view controller.
That's not the kind of model
I'm talking about here.
Here I mean a model layer.
It's your UI view.
So, yeah, we've called set frame on this.
And so our size is now
50/50 in the model,
but our presentation and render
trees are still 25 by 25.
Now, at the end, again,
we're assuming we're doing
this based on some user action.
So the user action now finishes.
We return to the run loop.
At that point,
unlike in the previous case,
our presentation and render
trees are still 25/25.
We've committed the change,
but now this is an animated change.
So we're right at the
beginning of the animation,
and the user is still seeing
the old size of 25/25.
And that's reflected in the
presentation and render trees.
Now, let's say one second
later we check again.
At that point,
our presentation tree will be reflecting
what's currently being rendered.
And if we display to
the user one second in,
halfway through,
it will be about 37.5 by 37.5.
And the same for the render tree.
And then two seconds later,
once the animation has finished,
since we had a two-second duration,
everything will be back in sync,
and the sizes on all of these
different trees will be back to 50/50.
So that's sort of a basic understanding,
hopefully, of how rendering on iOS works.
And the reason that this is interesting
is because the first way that you will
start building your rotation animations
is just by making changes inside
of animation blocks and having them
animate from the beginning to the end.
And so if you're trying to query
the state of these animations,
you can do that by looking at the
presentation tree during your rotations.
So now to get an idea of how we might
do some of this and some ways that
we can improve performance during
some of these animated transitions,
Andy's going to come up and
talk about rasterization.
Thank you, Josh.
You have animations happening,
and whenever you have
complex animations happening,
complex graphics,
the sad truth of the matter is that
you have to worry about performance.
So this section of the talk is
going to be concerned a little
bit more with making your
rotation animations performant,
assuming that you already
have them performing the
visual effect that you'd like.
Say that you have a user interface
that looks a little bit like this.
You got these three blocks.
They're nested inside of each
other as a view hierarchy.
When we go to render this,
We're going to copy each of
these sequentially from the
bottom up onto the screen.
Orange, then green, then red.
The tricky thing about this
situation is that this orange view
is mostly covered by the green view.
And so by copying the orange view
onto the screen and then immediately
covering it mostly with the green view,
we're actually wasting a lot of time.
Now, it's important that
we do this in general,
copy each of them individually,
because they might be moving
with respect to one another,
because sometimes the green
view might be really small with
respect to the orange view.
But you, the developer,
know a piece of information that
the system can't necessarily know.
Namely, you might know these are
going to stay fixed relative
to one another for a while.
And that's why we're talking about
this now with respect to rotation.
It's that often during
rotation animations,
you're able to say,
"Pieces of my interface,
I can keep these static
while they rotate,
or I can keep really tight control
over pieces of my interface
while it's rotating because
I know that the user isn't able
to interact with this application.
I control the whole appearance."
So there's this method you can call on
CAA layers called setShouldRasterize.
And that causes Core Animation to
make what's called a rasterization.
When it goes to render this thing,
it takes a snapshot of the entire
view hierarchy under the layer
where you setShouldRasterize to yes.
It keeps that copy around so
that when it goes to render,
it can just copy that
whole thing back on screen.
It doesn't have to do orange, then green,
then red.
And for the next frame,
it can reuse that rasterization,
which saves even more time.
Now, if you have these views animating
with respect to each other like this,
Then you get a somewhat different effect.
Remember I was telling you that this
is useful because you know something.
You know that these views are
static with respect to each other,
and that allowed you to take
advantage of this rasterization
technique where you can say,
"Hey,
just treat this whole thing as one block.
Take a snapshot of it effectively
and use that instead of dealing
with the layers individually." Well,
so if you have an animation like
this and you try to set should
rasterize yes on the orange view,
then Core Animation will
make that rasterization,
copy it on screen, but then for the next
frame of the animation,
because that red block has
moved down a little bit,
Core Animation will say, "Oh,
that rasterization that I have,
it's not valid anymore.
It's not an accurate representation of
the layer tree." So it'll throw it out.
And then it'll make another one.
And it'll copy that one on screen.
And then for the next frame,
it'll have to throw that one out too.
Every frame, creating one,
throwing it out,
doing even more work than it was
doing before you tried to set
should_rasterize onto the orange layer.
So be careful where you set it.
I told you that you might want to
set it during your rotations when
you know that you have some part of
the view hierarchy that's fixed and
you can use this optimization for.
So you might say, okay,
in will animate rotation
to interface orientation,
I'm going to set should rasterize yes
on this particular view hierarchy.
I encourage you to be very careful doing
this because you will want to disable
rasterization after the rotation finishes
so that once your user is able to once
again interact with your interface,
thus presumably changing
around the way that it looks,
you don't want to inadvertently
have that problem I was just showing
you where core animation has to
repeatedly create these rasterizations
and then just throw them out.
So turn it on and then at the
end of the rotation animation,
turn it off again.
If you have a rotation
that looks like this,
unfortunately what that means is that
rasterization is of no use to you.
But hopefully we'll be able to
talk about some other things in
this presentation that will be.
There's one other interesting
issue with rasterization
that you need to be aware of,
and that's if we're taking a snapshot
or something like a snapshot,
at what scale,
at what resolution should we take it?
It's really kind of usage dependent.
So if we have a label like this one,
And say it's 75 points high.
Well, if you're an LLDB and you ask
this label how high it is,
it doesn't say, oh, I'm 75 points high.
It says, I'm 75 high.
It's kind of not that clever.
It doesn't know the unit.
And so when you ask this layer
to create a rasterization,
it creates a 75-pixel rasterization.
And critically,
it does so even on a retina device.
What that means is that
on a retina device,
when you blow it up,
it's going to have jaggies.
We don't like jaggies.
There's a method you can call called
setRasterizationScale that specifies to
CoreAnimation at what resolution would
you like this rasterization to be made.
Generally for UIKit applications,
it makes sense to use the main screen
scale or the views windows screens scale.
So if you do that,
then it'll actually create 150
pixel tall rasterization rather
than a 75 pixel tall rasterization.
And then the jaggy situation
is substantially improved.
there are some memory
implications as well.
We're talking about making
a cache effectively,
and as with all caches,
they have memory implications.
So if you have a user interface
that looks a little bit like this,
where you have an image view and
then a sub view that's a label,
you certainly need to have
space to store that image.
It's a UI image of the Coliseum.
Maybe you loaded it from disk,
maybe you downloaded it.
However, it's stored in memory.
But if you set should rasterize
on the parent of the UI image
view and the UI label,
then you should be aware
that you also have the memory
cost of that rasterization,
which in some cases may be
as large as the image itself.
Now that we've talked about using this
snapshot-like tool for performance,
Let me talk about using
snapshots for snapshots' sake,
because they're actually really cool,
and they're generally useful
in rotation animations,
especially for the kind of
slate of hand tricks we're
going to be showing you later.
If you have an interface like this,
when it rotates, watch the red square.
Do you see how it actually appears
on screen in two places at once?
In order to do that, we basically need to
have one view duplicated.
But unfortunately,
UIView doesn't conform to NSCopying.
And even if it did,
that might not be a very effective
way to achieve this result,
because maybe your views point
to a particular data source
that would be very confused if
it got queried twice as often.
It's not prepared for that.
Or maybe it's just very complex.
So I propose that in many cases,
it's more convenient to simply
take a snapshot of the red
view to achieve this result.
And you can do this with a piece of API.
If you have a layer like this red view,
you can send it render in context
to have it draw into a CG context.
You can create a CG context
into which it might draw using
these UI graphics functions.
UI graphics begin image
context with options.
Note that here the scale
is yet again relevant.
Here we're using zero for the third
argument to begin image context,
and that indicates to the system
that the image created should be
at the scale of the main screen.
In this case,
on a high-resolution device,
that would be 2x, and that's what we want
to avoid those jaggies.
So now we have an image,
and we can manipulate it as such.
There is the question, however,
of what exactly are
we taking an image of,
particularly when we have an animation?
So if we take a snapshot
while that red box is moving,
what happens will depend upon whether
we're taking the snapshot of the model
tree or of the presentation tree.
As Josh mentioned earlier, the model tree
Always contains the final values,
and the model tree is the one that
your layers actually refer to,
your UIViews layers.
So if you just send rendering
context to the orange layer directly,
then what you'll get is a snapshot
of it at the end of its animation,
no matter where in the course of
its animation you take the snapshot.
That may be what you want,
but it may be more expedient for
you to send rendering context
to the presentation layer,
and that way you'll get
a snapshot mid-flight,
because the presentation tree always
contains at least an approximation
of what the user is seeing on screen.
There are some performance
characteristics that
you should be aware of.
Although rasterizations and snapshots
sound like mostly the same thing,
they're both snapshotty,
the way that they work,
technically speaking,
are somewhat distinct.
Critically, rasterizations are performed
by the render server.
You say, "Hey,
I want this layer to be rasterized.
I want you to effectively take
a snapshot of it and use that
instead of dealing with the layers
individually." The render server,
when it renders, does that.
So that's not happening in your process.
It's not blocking the flow
of application events.
Sometimes that can be useful,
but it could also mean that you're
now blocking the render server.
So it's an interesting
thing to be aware of.
The render server, though,
knows how to use the GPU.
That's valuable.
When you do it within
your own application,
when you take a snapshot,
you're going to be using the CPU.
So you say, "Layer Rendering
Context," and that thread,
the one where you say "Rendering
Context," which incidentally,
if you're sending that
message to a UI views layer,
had better be the main thread,
is going to be blocked until
that rendering is complete,
which could be quite a while,
especially on a new iPad.
On a new iPad, snapshots of the entire
screen are 10 megabytes,
so consider even the cost of just
copying 10 megabytes of data around,
let alone the fact that those
10 megabytes of data come from
a detailed rendering process.
There are costs associated
with these snapshots.
But if you're aware of
these characteristics,
between your knowledge and
your usage of instruments,
you should be able to figure
out the best thing to do.
Now that you know how to take snapshots
and how to make your rotations a little
faster with snapshotty-like techniques,
Josh is going to show you how
to make them look even better.
Thanks.
[Transcript missing]
And in fact, that's exactly what the
mail application does.
So if we take a look again,
I've slowed this down so that you can
fall asleep here in the next few minutes.
If you watch the right-hand
side that we had marked in red,
you're going to see that that part
where the labels are actually stretch
and fade out a little bit during the
rotation from landscape to portrait,
and the opposite happens.
It fades in on the rotation
from portrait to landscape.
The parts on the left are cross-fading,
but the only part on the left that we
can even notice that there's a cross-fade
at all is the second line of text,
because everything
else remains identical.
Nothing's changing there.
You do kind of notice a little bit
at the bottom on where the text crops
a little bit right at the beginning,
but again,
this is happening so fast that users
mostly just never even notice this.
Hopefully, this is something new to you.
If you've noticed it,
then maybe it's not worked
as well as I was hoping,
but... Anyway, so we've avoided basically
having to redraw a lot of stuff,
and we've fixed a problem that
wouldn't even be possible to
fix without snapshotting in any
really high-performance way,
because we can't draw every
frame of the text rewrapping.
That would be really expensive,
to rewrap the text at every
frame of that animation.
So, yeah, this entire animation really in
the middle is just two snapshots
cross-fading and stretching that
part that we had highlighted in red.
So what we're going to do next is
write a little sample application
that does basically exactly that.
And it's going to look a little
bit like this with slightly
less interesting content.
So we've got, again, just two views,
our landscape and portrait,
and it's basically the same
layout as the Mail app.
We've got a bunch of rows of text,
and we've got, you know,
navigation bar and tool bar.
We're going to do that same thing
because we've got the area on the
left that will remain the same,
the area on the right
that will remain the same,
and the area that we're going to stretch.
We actually, as I mentioned,
are going to take two snapshots.
So we're going to also take a
snapshot of the portrait view,
and we're going to stretch
that in much the same way.
But because that's actually
the full width of the thing
we're trying to stretch to,
we need to find some part
of it that we can stretch.
And I'm not sure how visible it is there,
but there's a red line just to the
right of that portrait snapshot,
just to the left of the chevrons.
Which is really -- basically we
can find one pixel there that's
pretty much all white except for the
separator rows that we could stretch
out as we expand this horizontally.
And the user would never really
notice that because it's all white,
so it's just going to
fill some empty space.
And we'll be cross-fading it with the
landscape one simultaneously anyway.
So let's take a look and
just focus on that because,
again, as in the other case,
we don't have to worry about the toolbar
or the tab bar or the navigation bar.
So we're really just focusing
on this part of the content,
the table view.
And, again, if we did nothing,
we would end up with something like
what we saw would have happened in Mail,
where at the beginning of that animation,
it would just snap to its new appearance.
And that's definitely not
what we want because we'd see
that big open white space.
And then, again,
if we hadn't done something,
we would see it animate towards
the portrait view in somewhat
of a way kind of like this.
Just doesn't look very good.
And then on the way back,
it would actually be slightly worse.
It would redraw itself and then be
clipping off on the right as it sort
of comes out from under the chevrons.
It's a very strange effect and
definitely not the best we could do.
So instead, we'll do those two snapshots,
and we're going to crossfade
and rotate them -- or,
sorry, crossfade and stretch them.
And it will look instead
something like this.
So the right side with the
chevrons is just sort of sliding
in towards the other side,
and the left side is minimally changing.
We just got crossfade of
the bottom lines of text,
and there's a little bit of stretching
happening there on the right side.
But for the most part,
most of the content is remaining
pretty much still in place.
And when we do this at speed,
users pretty much won't have any
ability to tell that there's anything
happening here other than what
they may actually have convinced
themselves is really supposed to
be the correct rotation animation.
So let's build that.
[Transcript missing]
Now, before we actually get into
implementing the rotation itself,
let's create a helper method,
actually a helper static function,
that will take a snapshot of an
arbitrary view for us using the technique
that Andy showed us a minute ago.
So I'll call it captureSnapshotOfView.
It's going to take a UIView
of which we'd like a snapshot
and return a UIImageView that
represents the content of that view.
Now, we'll do exactly what
Andy showed us in the slides.
And we're going to call
UIGraphicsBeginImageContextWithOptions
and pass in the bound size
of the view we want to snapshot.
We'll pass yes for the opaque because
our table view is fully opaque,
so we don't need an alpha layer here.
And finally,
we're going to pass zero for our scale
so that we'll get a high-resolution
rendering when we're on a retina device.
And then we're just going
to tell the target view,
tell its layer to render in
context into the current graphics
context that we just started.
Just like Andy showed,
we'll get an image out of it using
UIGraphicsGetImageFromCurrentContext
and then end that context.
Then we'll create our
UIImageView to represent this.
So we're going to allocate
a new UIImageView with
that image we just created.
We're going to set its frame to
match the frame of the target view
that we're trying to snapshot.
And then we can return
it from this function.
All right,
so that's going to be used so that we
can get our before and after snapshots.
It was helpful to factor it out
since we're going to call it twice.
So now we can actually begin
implementing the snapshotting.
So in willRotateToInterfaceOrientation
is where we want to capture
our before snapshot.
And we want to do this here because
in willRotateToInterfaceOrientation,
we're called before any of the changes
for the rotation have been applied.
So all the views are still in their
state for the previous orientation,
and nothing has been resized yet.
So that means that we can capture
our table view's original frame,
the frame before rotation,
by just getting it here.
We can capture the initial
snapshot by calling our function
captureSnapshotOfView here.
That will give us the
snapshot and frame before.
And then we just need to add that
snapshot into our view hierarchy
to get ready for this rotation.
So we're going to insert
it above the table view.
Because we want it to be on top.
So snapshot before rotation
that we just created,
insert into the view hierarchy
above the table view.
Now that we've got that,
we can actually go ahead
and start implementing the
frames after the rotation.
So in
willAnimateRotationToInterfaceOrientation
,
all of the views in your
hierarchy have already been
resized for the new orientation.
And the status bar orientation
has already been updated.
So everything is now in its final
state as far as the model is concerned.
So we can go ahead and capture
our table view's frame after
the rotation by looking at
willAnimateRotationToInterfaceOrientation
.
So we'll get the table view's
frame here and save that into
our frame after rotation Ivar.
Now we're going to do some setup here
that we don't want to have animated.
But willAnimateRotationToInterfaceOrient
ation is called from
within an animation block.
The one that UIKit set up to actually
resize all our views during rotation.
So we just want to temporarily
disable animations.
By setting animations enabled to no.
Once we've done that,
we can actually take our snapshot.
Again, calling the same capture snapshot
a view method on our table view.
And that's our after snapshot.
Now we're not going to insert it
into the view hierarchy just yet.
We'll get to that in a minute.
But what we do want to do is
resize it horizontally so that
it has the same width as the
initial view did at the beginning.
And I've actually written
a helper method for that.
So we're going to call
setFramePreservingHeight.
Passing in the frame before rotation.
Now this is basically
identical to setFrame.
With the only exception being that it
doesn't change the height of our view.
We don't want to stretch
these snapshots vertically.
So we want to make sure not
to resize them vertically.
So this will set the origin
and will set the width.
But will not set the height.
So we've got our snapshot now.
It's our right size.
It's the after snapshot,
but stretched horizontally
down to land on top of the
size of the initial snapshot.
So they're now layered on top of each
other on the left side of our view.
So next we need to figure out which
parts of our snapshots we want
to stretch during this rotation.
And if you recall,
we wanted to do something like this.
We want the right side here to
not stretch and the left side in
green over here to not stretch.
And the same thing in our portrait.
The right side over here should
not stretch and the left side
there should not stretch.
We will allow stretching in
this red part here and on the
single point width thing here.
So I've actually written
a little helper method to
calculate those two side things.
It's just a little bit of math,
and it's not especially interesting
here only because the way that you'll
decide which parts of your content can
be stretched and which ones can't will
vary based on what kind of content you're
talking about in your own applications.
So for the purposes of the demo,
I have a quick thing that will
calculate edge insets for us.
So UI edge insets represents top, left,
bottom, and right inset.
And so I've got a method here that
just calculates those green insets,
the left and right ones.
Now, the interesting part is that it
will basically always be in sum
the image with the smaller width.
So we have two images.
We have the final and the start
with landscape and portrait.
Whichever one is smaller is the one that
we're basically going to have be the
total sum of our left and right insets.
Because, you know,
the green here basically
adds up to the full image.
So we're going to have the
full width of portrait.
So anyway, we've now got our UI edge
insets representing the areas
that we don't want to stretch.
So now that we know what
we don't want to stretch,
we want to modify the
UI images that we captured,
the snapshots, to indicate which parts
should be stretchable.
So we're going to get our images out
of those two UI image views by calling
image on the UI image views that we have.
And we're going to create
stretchable images out of those
two UI images that we have here.
Now,
I'm using a new method being introduced
in iOS 6 here to do this called resizing.
So we're going to create a resizable
image with cap insets resizing mode.
The only catch right now is that
this is not in seed 1 that you have.
So I've used it here because it's
actually quite a bit easier to
do stretching using this method.
There are other ways that you
could do this stretching on
your own using other mechanisms.
But for simplicity's sake here,
we're going to use this.
And you will have it at some point.
But in the meantime, yes,
we've created a resizable
image with cap insets with that
unstretched area that we calculated.
With the resizing mode being
UI resizing mode stretch.
Now, that's the new part in this
API is the resizing mode.
The default, if you didn't pass that or
if you used the existing
resizable image with cap insets,
is to tile, not to stretch.
So we wouldn't end up getting
it stretched the way we'd like.
And anyway,
now that we've got our images created
with the correct stretchable regions,
we can just set them back
on that UI image view.
We've got our snapshot before and after.
Set the image back on there.
So next we have two things
left that we want to do.
We've got things set up so that we
have the images created and they're
set to stretch in the right ways,
but now we need to actually
set up the animations.
We want to crossfade the two views and
we want to stretch them horizontally.
So for crossfading,
we always want to fade
the one that is shorter.
The reason that we want to fade
the shorter one is because if
we were to fade the taller one,
you'd end up seeing at the bottom an
area where it became translucent and you
could see through to what's behind it.
If we always fade the shorter of the two,
you'll only ever see the
taller one behind it.
So it preserves the illusion that
we're actually rotating real stuff.
So in order to do that,
we have to pick the shorter image.
So we've got our two images,
image after and image before.
We'll check their sizes and
figure out which one's shorter.
Assuming that the image
after rotation is shorter,
we want to put the image after rotation
-- this is what we're rotating to -- on
top of the image before and fade it in.
So we're going to have the
image before as what's visible,
we're going to have
the image after on top,
and we'll fade it in
on top while we rotate.
So to do that,
we have to start with it faded out,
so we're going to set its alpha to zero.
Then we're going to insert it
on top of the image before,
so insert subview image after,
above subview image before,
so we've got the after
one we're going to on top.
And then we want to fade it in,
so we'll set its alpha to one.
Now, if the image before rotation,
our initial image, were the shorter one,
what we'd actually want
to do then is fade it out.
We want it to start visible
and then start disappearing.
So for that to work,
we have to put the final snapshot,
our image after, underneath it.
So we're going to insert
it into our view hierarchy,
insert snapshot after,
below subview snapshot before.
This is why we didn't insert this
when we first created the snapshot,
because depending on which one's shorter,
we want one on top of
the other or vice versa.
Now, of course,
we want to fade out the image before,
because it's on top right now,
so we'll set its alpha to zero,
which will fade it out and cause
us to see the final version about
halfway through our rotation.
So that's it for fading.
The last thing we have to do
is stretch them horizontally.
Right now,
they're both positioned right on top of
each other on the left side of our view.
We want to stretch them horizontally
throughout this animation.
The animation for this for the
snapshot after is really easy,
because we already have
the frame for that.
So we'll call the snapshot after frame,
set its frame to the
frame after rotation.
This basically sets the final
snapshot's frame to match
the final table view's frame.
So that'll stretch it out horizontally.
Now, we want to do the same thing
for the initial snapshot,
the snapshot before,
but like we did before,
we only want to stretch it horizontally.
We don't want to stretch it vertically,
because if we stretched it vertically,
you'd see the text
stretched out vertically,
and that would look pretty bad.
So we're going to use that same
convenience method I created before,
set frame preserving height,
and we'll pass in the
same frame after rotation,
because we do want it
to have the same width,
but we'll keep its original height.
All right, now there is one last
thing we're going to do.
Oops,
I have failed miserably in that I've
put this above our animations enabled
so they would not actually animate.
Wow, I've done this for everything.
Let's go ahead and move
all this down here.
That would have been surprising
when I went to run our demo.
Then the last thing we've got
here is that we actually have
our table view still in the view
hierarchy and still visible.
Now, our snapshots are on top of it,
but they're fully covering it.
So it's a little silly to have the table
view in the hierarchy at this point,
only because Core Animation will
have to figure out that it
shouldn't be rendering it.
We could tell it that.
So we'll tell it that by
just setting it into yes,
make sure that our performance
is as high as possible.
The last thing we want to do is
clean up after ourselves and did
rotate from interface orientation.
So we remove our two snapshot views from
the view hierarchy and nil them out.
I'm using arc here just so
you don't think I'm leaking
views all over the place.
I didn't call release because
arc's cleaning up for us
when we set our IVARs to nil.
And then we're going to unhide
our table view so that we
actually see it again in the end.
And after all of that typing and
frantic reorganizing of code,
we should now be in a
case where when we rotate,
we see the -- the whole thing -- Oh,
right, sorry.
I did this right before the demo,
so I now know what's wrong.
I have commented out my code so that
it wouldn't be throwing errors before.
That was the method that's
returning us the edge insets.
I had written it before
but left it commented out.
Let's uncomment it so it works.
Now when we rotate,
if we watch over here,
we'll see things stretch just in
that area that was marked red.
And everything else will
just crossfade nicely.
The chevrons will kind of slide
in towards the views on the left,
the areas on the left,
will slide towards the chevrons.
And there's kind of a minimal amount
now of stretching and crossfading.
It's about as close as we can get to what
it really should look like without having
to really draw every intermediate frame.
Now there is one last thing.
So we can scroll around now and
rotate and everything looks -- Uh-oh.
So we've got some black areas up there.
That doesn't look too good.
What happened there is that when
we called render in context,
it actually was the case that
-- Since we're in a scroll
view and the thing we're trying
to render is a scroll view,
we had scrolled our content up.
We captured the origin of the
content in the table view,
00.
But that's scrolled way up off
screen now and there's no cells there
anymore because it's off screen.
So we ended up seeing a big black
area where there would have been cells
at the top of our table view if it
were actually scrolled all the way in.
So we need to make sure that
when we render this table view,
we capture just the
part of it that we want.
So before we call render in context,
we can just shift our graphics context
by the amount that we scrolled to make
sure that we -- So when we capture it,
we render the right part at the origin of
our image that we're trying to snapshot.
So we can do that by translating
the context transformation matrix.
So we'll call CG context translate CTM,
translate the current transform matrix,
on the current graphics context.
And the amount that we want to
translate it by is the exact
same amount that we scrolled by.
And the amount that we
scrolled by is just the bounds
origin of our target view,
which is the table view.
So we'll translate by the negative
of the bounds origin dot x and the
negative of the bounds origin dot y to
make sure that we're capturing the right
part of the table view and not getting
black areas where there's no content.
So if we do that and then scroll
down a little bit and rotate,
now we're actually
capturing the right part,
and we can still get a correct snapshot,
and everything looks good.
So we say all this stuff not to say that,
like, these are the techniques
in order to do rotation.
We're not trying to say
that snapshotting is,
like, the way to do it.
This is more trying to give you
an idea of the kinds of tools that
are in the toolbox that you can
use when thinking of how you should
build your own rotation animations.
Some of these techniques
may be useful in your apps,
but if they're not, then, you know,
move on and try something else.
Not all of them are, you know,
the right answer for every situation.
So to get back into some of the,
you know, more honest rotation animations
that are really doing the real
things as opposed to the ways that
we're tricking our users here,
Andy's going to come back and talk
a little more about performance
characteristics and tricks.
Josh has lied to you.
What I'm about to show you
is a series of hideous hacks.
Masks are slow.
This is why they're slow.
When we go to draw them,
say that we have a view like this
that's masked in a star shape,
we render the entire view,
the unmasked version,
into an off-screen buffer,
and then in each frame,
copy the bits of that buffer on screen,
evaluating the mask to make sure
we only copy the right bits on,
and then we throw the buffer away.
We do that every frame.
Make the buffer, copy,
throw the buffer away.
No good.
But rotation,
like the rasterization thing
we were talking about before,
is a place where you might be
able to control the situation
you're trying to mask.
So you might be able to
use setShouldRasterize,
like I showed you before,
in order to say, "Hey,
this thing that I'm masking,
Nothing inside of it is going to change
during the course of the animation,
so at least don't throw
that off-screen buffer away,
please.
If you can't guarantee that things inside
of the masked hierarchy are not moving,
then you might be able to
take a screenshot of it,
perhaps sans a view,
and then move the screenshot
around and move one of the
views around on top of it.
But the aforementioned hideous
hack is actually this one.
Maybe you can draw what's underneath the
masked view hierarchy back on top of it.
In this case, that would look like this.
So you actually don't mask anything.
You create another view that has
the background and has a hole in it,
and then you draw that on top.
You probably can't get away with
doing that in general because usually
the background is going to change.
But during a rotation animation,
you might have enough control,
you might be able to arrange
things so that you can.
That would be pretty cool.
I have a piece of news for you.
This particular kind of masking,
which you get by calling
setCornerRadius on caLayer,
is now much, much faster on iOS 6.
It's still kind of slow.
It has to be.
I have more hideous hacks for you.
Maybe you don't have to do
all of the complex animations
that you think you have to do.
During a rotation, part of your interface
is going off screen.
The corner is going to be cut.
Maybe the corner doesn't matter.
I'd like to show you a demo.
The fun part about this demo is
is that I'm not actually
going to write any code.
So I'm going to make a new project
that's just the default master
detail application template.
Build and run.
No code changes.
I'm going to show you what
split views on our system do.
It's kind of heinous.
So I rotate.
Split view looks good, right?
I think it looks pretty good.
Now watch over here as
this navigation bar slides.
Yes, that's right,
slides into place and out of place.
We were able to get away with doing that
Because this region of the screen mostly
goes off-screen during the rotation.
So there's really no need to
do anything more than take a
snapshot of the 768 pixel high
master view and move that around,
which is extremely cheap because at
that point core animation is just
sliding a quad around the screen.
It's not doing anything fancy at all.
And you probably never noticed this.
I encourage you to use such techniques
within your own applications.
I encourage you also to
bother Jake Behrens with any
questions you might have,
because he is here to help you.
Furthermore, you should bother each other
on the developer forums.
And I'd like to review a few points
that we've talked about today.
First one, most importantly,
let UIKit do things for you.
Much of this is hard,
and we've done much of it for you.
So there's the rotating
header view thing.
There's the rotating footer view thing.
Status bars rotate for you.
The keyboard rotates for you.
Let us do that.
When you have to do your own rotations,
Maybe you can tell the system
that a certain part of your screen
can be considered as a unit for
the course of your rotation.
That was the rasterization bit.
And then maybe you can use some of the
same techniques to fake things or to make
better animations by taking snapshots,
which may be slow,
especially on new iPads,
so make sure you evaluate the
performance characteristics.
You can get some really cool
animations by stretching
only part of those snapshots.
That's a technique we really like.
There's some new API in iOS 6,
not in this beta, but soon,
that you'll be able to use for that.
And finally, simplify.
The theme of this whole talk has been,
this is pretty fast.
Maybe you can get away with doing
something a little less faithful.
I hope this has been helpful.
I hope you'll create even
more amazing applications.
I hope you'll wow us with your
interface orientation transitions.
And I hope you have a great
time with the rest of your week.